{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red23\green0\blue156;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c12193\c7184\c67532;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16380\viewh13940\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Referee report of \'93Bayesian Inference for Cox Proportional Hazard Models with Partial Likelihoods, Semi-Parametric Covariate Effects and Correlated Observations\'94
\f1\b0 \ul \
\ulnone \
The authors propose an efficient strategy for carrying out approximate Bayesian inference for Cox proportional hazard (PH) models with partial likelihoods, accounting for semi-parametric effects and correlated observations. This is a solid piece of work, which I enjoyed reading, the material is clearly presented and the content is, to the best of my understanding, correct. Nonetheless I am wondering whether the innovative content of the work is it substantial enough for this article to be considered for publication in Bayesian Analysis. The work builds upon some ideas presented by Stinger et al., (2020), where an INLA approach for approximate computation of the posterior distribution of a model with partial likelihood is proposed. The same approach cannot be directly applied to the PH model under consideration because of the computational burden implied by the Hessian matrix of the log-partial likelihood being fully dense. These computational bottlenecks are tackled by adopting quasi-Newton optimization methods. Additional numerical improvements on existing methods include the use of an adaptive procedure which simplifies the steps required to specify the method and optimizes memory storage. While the proposed solutions are sound, I have the impression that the innovative content should be considered incremental when compared to Stinger et al., (2020).\
\
Below I list some more specific comments which I hope might help improving the manuscript.\
\

\f0\b 1
\f1\b0 . 
\f0\b Presentation of the model
\f1\b0 . The model specification presented in Equation 1 is general as it accounts for predictors whose association with the log-hazard is modelled as linear or semi-parametrically, and for a frailty term. It is not immediately clear though if the computational challenges provided by the use of the Cox PH model with partial likelihood have anything to do with the specific model that was considered or the same would arise regardless of the model adopted for the effect of the predictors. If this is the case, in my opinion, the presentation of the method might be more effective if introduced, at first, for the simplest model, for example the one only counting only the covariates x_\{ij\}. The more complex model could be introduced at a later stage as the one implemented in the examples of Section 4. \
\
As an additional note, is the model specification of Equation 1 (linear & semi+parametric & frailty) used somewhere else? If so it might be worth providing the reference.\
\

\f0\b 2
\f1\b0 . 
\f0\b Alternative approaches
\f1\b0 . The starting point of the paper is that existing approaches based on INLA cannot be applied to Cox PH models with partial likelihood. It should be clarified in the introduction if other Bayesian methods, either exact or approximate, have been used in the literature. This aspect should be clarified.\
In addition, I think it might be worth mentioning another class of nonparametric models for the baseline hazard function, such as the one of Dykstra & Laud, (1981), where the baseline hazard function is modelled by means of a gamma process. \
\

\f0\b 3
\f1\b0 . 
\f0\b Simulation study / assessment of the quality of the approximation
\f1\b0 .  I find the simulation study of Section 4 not very compelling as, in my opinion, it fails at satisfactorily address two questions that I think are relevant when adopting a 
\f2\i new
\f1\i0  and 
\f2\i approximate
\f1\i0  method for posterior computation. Namely, 1) how good is the approximation? 2) How is the method compared with alternative strategies for posterior computations, both in terms of accuracy and computational efficiency? \
\
I will list some points which I believe would help making the simulation study more compelling. These suggestions are nothing but a possible option, other ideas might be equally valid. As for point 1, it would be interesting -for example- to explore the coverage of the approximate posterior estimates on a set of several replicates. Another option could be to compare posterior estimates of the proposed approximate method with those obtained with standard MCMC (when the parametric form of the baseline hazard which generated the data is known). As for point 2, right now the only comparisons are rather qualitative and made only on the analysis of the real data sets of Sections 4.2 and 4.3. A comparison could be carried out also in the case of simulated data: one option that seems in line with how the material is presented would be to compare posterior inference obtained with the proposed method, with the one produced by the approach of Martino et al., (2011). Such comparison could be done under various settings, e.g. settings where the smoothness assumptions required by Martino and co-authors are met by the data generating process, and settings where the same requirements are not met. \
\

\f0\b Minor comments and typos\

\f1\b0 \
- second line of Section 2.2. which in turn ==> which is in turn\
- points are missing at the end of equations, not sure though what are the instructions of the journal in this sense\
- second last line of page 7. You state the matrix in (18) is more sparse than the precision matrix given by Stringer et al. (2020). Could you elaborate on this? This might help understanding given that the matrix of Stringer and co-authors is not given here.\
- third line of Section 4.1. an regular ==> a regular\
- last line of Section 4.1. an reasonable ==> a reasonable\
- in the References, the entry of Geyer should not have a point after the last name.\
\

\f0\b References\
\

\f1\b0 Stringer, Brown, & Stafford, (2020). \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Approximate Bayesian inference for case-crossover models, 
\f2\i Biometrics
\f1\i0 .\
Dykstra & Laud (1981). A Bayesian nonparametric approach to reliability 
\f2\i The Annals of Statistics
\f1\i0 .\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Martino, Akerkar, and Rue, (2011). Approximate Bayesian inference for survival models. 
\f2\i Scandinavian Journal of Statistics
\f1\i0 .\cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
}